<div style="border:1px solid #aaa;background:#f8f9fa;padding:0.5em 1em;margin-bottom:1em;font-size:95%;">
'''Independent project — no Wikimedia affiliation.''' wikicells is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by the [https://wikimediafoundation.org/ Wikimedia Foundation], [https://www.wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia], [https://www.wikidata.org/ Wikidata], [https://www.wikiba.se/ Wikibase], or [https://www.mediawiki.org/ MediaWiki]. References and comparisons to those projects on this page identify the open-source software being deployed (Wikibase, MediaWiki) or describe design influences and technical interoperability (federating with Wikidata, following MediaWiki conventions); conformance to their standards is not a claim of affiliation. "Wikipedia," "Wikimedia," and "Wikidata" are trademarks of the Wikimedia Foundation.
</div>

== Mission ==

'''wikicells''' is open-source infrastructure for community-edited Creative Commons databases. It exists to answer one question: ''what if Wikipedia's contribution model applied to spreadsheet rows and column definitions, not just article prose?''

== Why this exists ==

A wiki gives you community-edited prose with full revision history, attribution, and Wikipedia-style permissions (including redaction of harmful content). A spreadsheet gives you rows and columns. Most open-source platforms do one or the other — none do both at cell-level granularity.

The closest existing platform is [https://www.wikidata.org/ Wikidata] (built on Wikibase), which models the world as items with statements: every fact is a structured assertion, every assertion has revision history, every property is itself a wiki entity. This project takes that model and packages it so any organization can deploy a similar Creative Commons resource with minimal effort.

== Two goals ==

# '''Build the infrastructure''' so that other organizations can spin up similar wikified-database sites.
# '''Use that infrastructure''' to host the project's own documentation (the site you're reading) and a specific target site (details forthcoming).

== Values ==

* '''Give back to the commons.''' Structured data is licensed [https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ CC0] so it flows frictionlessly to Wikidata and other open repositories.
* '''Be open and interoperable.''' [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Wikibase/Federation Federated Properties] with Wikidata are enabled from day one. RDF dumps and a SPARQL endpoint are public.
* '''Encourage others to do the same.''' Infrastructure is open-source. Deployment is reproducible. The project itself models the patterns it advocates.

== Status ==

Pre-Hello-World. See [[Roadmap]].
