== Stack ==

{| class="wikitable"
! Layer
! Component
|-
| Wiki + structured data
| MediaWiki + Wikibase extension
|-
| Database
| MariaDB 10.11
|-
| Search
| Elasticsearch
|-
| Query service
| Blazegraph (Wikibase Query Service)
|-
| TLS termination
| Traefik + Let's Encrypt
|-
| Container orchestration
| Docker Compose
|}

Based on the upstream [https://github.com/wmde/wikibase-release-pipeline Wikibase Suite] release pipeline.

== Data model ==

A row in a wikified table is a Wikibase '''item''' (Q-ID).<br>
A column is a Wikibase '''property''' (P-ID), defined globally and reused across tables.<br>
A cell is a '''statement''' on an item using a property — and statements carry their own revision history through the item's revision log.

A "table" is then a set of items sharing a common schema (a set of properties). Membership can be declared via "instance of" statements ([https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 Wikidata P31]) or recovered by SPARQL queries against the schema.

== Why Wikibase ==

It is the only mature open-source platform that natively combines:

* Structured data with statement-level granularity, qualifiers, and references
* Properties as wiki entities with their own revision history (schema-as-wiki)
* Full revision history per entity
* Battle-tested permissions: autoconfirmed → reviewer → admin → oversighter, with [https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:RevisionDelete RevisionDelete] and suppression
* First-class Wikidata federation

Alternatives surveyed — Semantic MediaWiki, the Cargo extension, Wiki.js, [https://www.dolthub.com/ Dolt] with a custom frontend — each lacked at least one of these, with the closest alternative requiring months of build work to reach parity.

== Federation ==

[https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Wikibase/Federation Federated Properties] is enabled. Local items reference Wikidata Q-IDs via [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 P31] (instance-of) and other Wikidata properties directly, without re-defining them locally.

Federated SPARQL queries can join local data against Wikidata in a single query. Structured data is CC0 so it can flow back to Wikidata frictionlessly via [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Help:QuickStatements QuickStatements] or curated bots.

== Cell-level history UX gap ==

Wikibase stores statement-level history — every statement change is part of an item revision — but does not ship a UI for "show me the history of this single cell." Closing that gap is the principal engineering investment after Hello World, planned as the <code>CellHistory</code> MediaWiki extension.

== Trust model ==

Deferred from Hello World. Hello World uses only MediaWiki's stock access-level ladder. The designed stake-and-slash vouching system is documented in [[Trust Model]] and will be implemented as the <code>TrustGraph</code> extension in a later phase.
