__NOTOC__

<div style="border:1px solid #aaa;background:#f8f9fa;padding:0.5em 1em;margin-bottom:1em;font-size:95%;">
'''Independent project — no Wikimedia affiliation.''' wikicells is not affiliated with, endorsed by, or sponsored by the [https://wikimediafoundation.org/ Wikimedia Foundation], [https://www.wikipedia.org/ Wikipedia], [https://www.wikidata.org/ Wikidata], [https://www.wikiba.se/ Wikibase], or [https://www.mediawiki.org/ MediaWiki]. This site runs the open-source MediaWiki and Wikibase software and federates with Wikidata for technical interoperability; conformance to their standards is not a claim of affiliation. "Wikipedia," "Wikimedia," and "Wikidata" are trademarks of the Wikimedia Foundation.
</div>

Welcome to '''wikicells''' — a community-edited Creative Commons database where every cell and every column is itself a wiki.

This is the reference deployment of [https://github.com/CommVent/wikicells wikicells], an open-source infrastructure that any organization can use to host similar wikified-database sites.

== Start here ==

* [[About]] — what this project is and why it exists
* [[Architecture]] — the stack, the data model, the federation posture
* [[Roadmap]] — what's built, what's next
* [[Open Questions]] — the project's own decision log, hosted here as a wikified table (the first one)

== Contributing ==

Anyone can read. Editing requires a free account. New accounts can edit immediately; some actions are gated by [[mw:Help:User_access_levels|automatic promotion]] (autoconfirmed after 4 days and 10 edits; extended-confirmed after 30 days and 500 edits). Higher tiers are granted by admins.

Structured data on this site is licensed [https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/ CC0]. Long-form prose is licensed [https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ CC-BY-SA-4.0]. By editing you agree to release your contributions under these terms.

== Federation ==

This site federates with [https://www.wikidata.org/ Wikidata]. Properties defined there (like [https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Property:P31 P31 "instance of"]) can be used directly on local items, and notable facts curated here can flow back upstream.

== Query the data ==

The SPARQL endpoint is at <code>https://<TBD-wdqs-host>/sparql</code>; the query UI is at the root of that hostname.
