== Hello World phase ==

Goal: a self-hosted Wikibase running at a real domain, populated with this project's own architectural decisions as a wikified table — demonstrating cell-as-wiki and schema-as-wiki on real project content from day one.

{| class="wikitable"
! Step
! Description
! Status
|-
| 1 || Scaffold repo layout + bootstrap docs || ✅ Done
|-
| 2 || <code>infra/docker-compose.yml</code> (Wikibase Suite) || ✅ Done
|-
| 3 || <code>infra/config/Extensions.php</code> (federation + CC0 + user groups) || ✅ Done
|-
| 4 || <code>seed/schema.yaml</code> + <code>seed/open-questions.tsv</code> || ✅ Done
|-
| 5 || <code>seed/pages/</code> (Main_Page, About, ...) || ⏳ In progress
|-
| 6 || <code>bots/seed_load.py</code> (idempotent seed loader) || ⏳ Pending
|-
| 7 || <code>infra/config/traefik-dynamic.yml</code> + deployment recipe || ✅ Done
|-
| 8 || User: provision VPS, register domain, first deploy || ⏳ User action
|}

== User actions blocking public deployment ==

* Register a domain
* Provision a VPS (≥ 4 GB RAM recommended for Elasticsearch + Blazegraph headroom)
* Point DNS at the VPS
* Set admin credentials in <code>infra/.env</code> on first boot

Steps 1–7 do not depend on these — they all run locally on Docker Compose.

== Post-Hello-World phases ==

;Phase A — <code>CellHistory</code> extension
:Custom MediaWiki extension surfacing per-statement edit history as a first-class UI. The principal engineering investment of this project — it's the gap between Wikibase and our "every cell is a wiki" requirement.

;Phase B — Bots and export
:<code>bots/wikidata_sync.py</code> (curated import/export with Wikidata) and <code>bots/export_mirror.py</code> (scheduled wiki → markdown mirror for offline / GitHub-search discoverability).

;Phase C — Oversight policy
:Document the appeal process for RevisionDelete and suppression; establish the audit trail; train initial oversighters.

;Phase D — Federation hardening
:Scheduled RDF dump publishing; SPARQL endpoint hardening; QuickStatements push-to-Wikidata workflow for notable facts.

;Phase E — Maintainers' first deployment
:The project maintainers' own wikified-database site, built on this infrastructure — serving as a real-world stress test and reference deployment. A [[Known Deployments]] index will grow as others adopt the stack.

;Phase F — Adoption packaging (Goal i)
:Turn <code>infra/</code> + <code>extensions/</code> + <code>bots/</code> + <code>seed/</code> into a forkable deployment template other organizations can adopt with minimal setup.

The full decision log is maintained as wikified data — see the [[Special:WhatLinksHere/Item:Q_class_decision|Architectural decision]] class page once the seed loader has populated the data.
